"We have to continue to keep up these practices. Even though nature is completely free and there's
nothing really to change, but for us, we have to have some guidelines.
Guidelines how to keep up the practices, to discover this nature. To keep up these practices, keep
up that guidelines, is known as the samayas.
In the Dzogchen level, there are two samayas. Two samayas, those are known as the samayas that have
to be guarded, G-U-A-R-D, I think.
Samayas that have to be guarded in samayas, or have to be guarded in samayas and unguarded in samay
as, or that we don't have to guard, or have samayas that have to guard, samayas that don't have to
guard.
Samayas that have to guard, and that is, then generally, there is also called generative approach
in Dzogchen teaching, those are known as general samaya, pacific samaya, and very pacific samayas,
those are known as three samayas generally.
And just generally, we are talking of the whole view of the samayas. And the first is, the general
samaya is very general, with all further teachings, what are those samayas, what teaching says, and
what we receive.
I mean, again, the Theravada, or the Hinayana vowels, and those are, those vowels, and then Bodhis
attva vowels, and the Vedayana vowels, and even though there are so many details, but we highlight
that, what the teaching says.
That avoiding all the negative activities directly, indirectly, it is the essence of the Hinayana
vowels, essence. Think of that, avoiding all the negative activities, directly, indirectly.
Negative means what? Disturbing, hurting others, and ourself, directly, indirectly. Avoiding that
is Hinayana vowels.
Now, keep that, but that teaching, again, as you all know, is not something completely different,
all lined up, all lined up, keeping that vowels, keeping that, above that Mahayana, Suttar Mahayana
vowels.
What is it? Performing the beneficial activity directly, indirectly, to yourself, to all the beings
, is the essence vowels of the Mahayana, Suttar Mahayana vowels.
So that is the, so now we have two. First is the Hinayana vowels, or Hinayana or the basic Buddhism
school vowels. They avoid all the negative activities, directly, directly, to ourselves, to others.
And the second is performing, above that, performing the beneficial activities directly, indirectly
, to you or to others, that. Above that, see everything as in a three-weather status, everything is
negative.
So every day, three-weather status, whether a form, whether a speech, whether a mind, is, is then
the, the Mahayana vowels.
And we keep that, that is known as the general vowels of the Mahayana, general vowels.
Then, the Pacific vowels as many sub-divisions. So if I just highlight again, the Pacific one,
highlight those again.
And those are known as the vowels of the related Vedic, five dhyana vowels. Five dhyana vowels.
And the putting down vowels that we chant in every time, our sub-singement is 10th diphrydia, dakk
hi diphrydias, putting down vowels at big ones, and that also we chant during our sub-singement.
So those are, say, kind of roughly as Pacific or Jirrei, Jirrei, and Pacific vowels or Samayas.
Then, very Pacific vowels of the dakkhi teachings, or the inner tantra, three inner tantra
teachings, and that is then highlighted here, here.
And that is as true, that vowels that have to be watched or good, vowels that not have to be good,
two vowels, or Samayas that have to be good and have to be not good.
And Samayas that have been worded, that we went through, and that is connected with the teachings.
All the teachings, there is like nine outer vowels, nine inner vowels, nine single vowels, that
which is connected with the body, speech, mind of the teachings, also in the dakkhi teachings or
the inner tantra, the name.
And now the teachings, again, the teachings, it looks like a teacher is not good, it has to be
watched and good, the vowels are even keeping with the teachers.
And that's really true. But it's not just a teacher, one teacher. This is the lineage teachings.
Lineage teachings start as we talk, from the Buddha, some of the butters.
So, until the Buddha, some of the butters, everyone observes those 27 vowels, vowels as their
teachers, related with their teachers.
So that means, of course the God of God and various others, they don't have to be good. But for us,
for us, from now on, from here, all the way to that, I'm going to give my son one.
Every teacher has to be observed to their vowels as their teachers, teachers, so that means that
teachers don't have to observe, only the students have to observe.
That, not that, the teacher is a student of their teachers. And that teacher is a student of the
previous teachers.
So therefore, everyone, that means everyone has to keep up the vowels.
And while all together, 27, as I said, nine vowels of the body, related with the body of the
teacher, nine vowels of the speech of the, connected with the speech of the teacher, and nine vow
els of the connected with the mind of the teachers.
And now, when of course, teachers, how, generally, how many teachers? In the very other teaching,
there is, you can call it, nine, sorry, six different teachers.
And that can be, also, can be one teacher, can be all of those, two teachers can be all of those,
or maybe could be one individual teacher, all one of those.
All total, can be like, highlighted as six different teachers. So those are teaching, personal
teaching, teaching is what? All, generally, all teachers are called general teachers, general
teachers.
When you receive the teaching, or when you receive the teaching, teaching is all respected one of
the levels. All one of the levels, those are known as general teachers.
And the second teaching is known, teaching is known as one who you aspire to the path, one who
gives you the vowels.
Those are known as teacher of the vowels, such as, in this case, many times, who perform the rafuja
sayyimos, give the rafuja vowels.
And all that is known as, all vowels of the bus, or bus cars, vowels of the, any other kind of, in
the Buddha's teachings, vowels, we give the vowels.
Those are known as that, the one who guided to the path, so God, or one who ushered to the path, so
this is the path, teacher of the ushering path.
And the second is teacher of the one who give the initiation, so not second, third, one who give
the initiations, shishas, and empowerment, initiations.
Those are known as the giver, teacher, which is the giver of the initiations, and the transmissions
.
Those are known as, then, this is the third, teacher's, giver of the teacher.
And then, poor teacher is one who also is helping you, always guiding you, and helping you, guiding
you, help you, redirect us to the path of always inspiring and kind of adjusting to the path.
And help you to put it by our negativities, our obscurations, or broken minds.
So those are known as purification teachers, or who help to purify us.
And the fifth one is the teacher who is making explanations, explanations, teachings, that we don't
understand.
They will clarify, explaining, and going through the teaching one after another.
Another one going through the teachings.
Those are known as, who is the clarified teacher, or who is going in the clarifications, teachings.
And the sixth one is the teacher of the beat instructors, and who is giving the beat instructors,
such as Zouji teachings, all Mahamudra teachings, all the teachings of the nature of the mind.
Those are known as, those are known as the teacher of the beat instructors.
So those are all known as six different teachings.
Now all these six teachings are generally also known as, then, nada-teaches.
I mean, that is highlighted one of them.
And that is known as, then, many times we call root teachings.
Root teachings. What means root teachings?
Generally, root teaching is, is something that you feel so connected, is inspired, help you
immediately, instead, that becomes a root teacher, generally, for example.
For example, the great master, Maharajas, Mahabharis, become immediately his root teacher.
You don't have to do any, all those different things.
Instead, with the, according to the life story, according to his story, instead, one teacher, Mahab
har most of the time, that's it.
Really, he said that, he listened, he followed, he received the teaching, and then enlightenment,
so root teachings, that is.
And then, generally, that is not just that.
And for example, for Yummi Lang Bhaa, Yummi Lang Bhaa, considering Yumchi Bhaa, his root teachings.
Yummi Lang Bhaa and Tungchi Bhaa, between Yummi Lang Bhaa and Tungchi Bhaa, there is a long gap of
the times.
But however, when he is meditating, he received the personal body of Yumchi Bhaa three times.
After that, he completely explodes of the true nature, exactly as it is.
And he has completely overflowed of these primordial Muslims.
He didn't have to go through all those intellectual starting systems.
He completely becomes such a great scholar, scholar, master of Buddhism.
And he considered, his Longchi Bhaa become his root teacher, always there.
But normal times, all the time, root teachers are there.
Known as one who gives the involvement and the transmission,
one who gives you the explanation of the teachings of the Tantra,
and one who gives you the peace instructions, that is known as the root teacher.
And therefore, many times in the teachings, I'm sure you read, Master Book, read that the teacher,
who been three different ways of kindness, three different kindness,
kindness of the giving the involvement and transmission,
kindness of the making explanation of the teachings, clarifications,
and kindness of the who giving the instructions of the nature of the mind.
That is known as the - then the kindness wrote to teachers,
a forward in the other approach of the Buddhist teachings, that,
or the many other teachings.
So now, with that understanding,